Improve contents of the creating hosts manually page (#3715)
centreon/centreon-documentation: versioned_docs/version-22.10/monitoring/basic-objects/hosts.md

To create a host manually:

1. Go to **Configuration \> Hosts \> Hosts** and then click **Add**.
2. Fill in the fields (see [below](#host-configuration-tab)), and then click **Save**.
3. [Deploy the configuration](../monitoring-servers/deploying-a-configuration.md).

## Host configuration tab

### Host basic information

> * **Name**: host name used by the Monitoring Engine. Cannot contain `~!$%^&|'"<>?,()=*{}` and spaces will be automatically replaced with _.

Author: ```suggestion
* **Name**: host name used by the Monitoring Engine. Cannot contain `~!$%^&|'"<>?,()=*{}` and spaces will be automatically replaced with _. You may use the `h.name:` syntax in the **Search bar** of the **Resource status** to look up a host.
```

> * **Alias**: another name for the host. Spaces and characters unauthorized in the name are allowed here. You can also use the alias to look up the host using the Search bar in the Resource Status page with the syntax `alias:`.

Author: ```suggestion
* **Alias**: another name for the host. Spaces and characters unauthorized in the name are allowed here. You may use the `h.alias:` syntax in the **Search bar** of the **Resource status** to look up a host.
```

> * **Address**: IP address or DNS name of the host. The **Resolve** button tests the domain name by questioning the DNS server configured on the central server. If given a DNS name, the **Resolve** button will also replace the text with the matching IP address.

Author: ```suggestion
* **Address**: IP address or DNS name of the host. The **Resolve** button tests the domain name by questioning the DNS server configured on the central server. If given a DNS name, the **Resolve** button will also replace the text with the matching IP address. You may use the `h.address:` syntax in the **Search bar** of the **Resource status** to look up a host.
```

If multiple templates modify the same field, the properties of the template placed above the others will be applied. 

   Here is an example of a host with 3 templates applied to it.

   ![image](../../assets/monitoring/template_priority_example.png)

   * **App-DB-MySQL** applies its configuration.

   * **OS-Linux-SNMP** then overwrites it where its own configuration is in conflict with **App-DB-MySQL** but will not change fields for which it has no new information. Fields that were not modified previously by **App-DB-MySQL** for which **OS-Linux-SNMP** has new information will be filled in with it.

   * **App-Monitoring-Centreon-Central** then does the same with the configuration from **OS-Linux-SNMP**.

   Modifying the order of the templates automatically updates the applied configurations if necessary.

- This button ![image](../../assets/configuration/common/move.png#thumbnail1) enables us to change the order of host templates.
- This button ![image](../../assets/configuration/common/delete.png#thumbnail1) is used to delete the host template.

* If the **Create Services linked to the Template too** field is defined as **Yes**, Centreon automatically generates

>   the services according to the service [template](../templates.md) of the host template placed above the others.

Author: ```suggestion
  the services according to the service [templates](../templates.md) of the host templates placed above the others.
```

### Scheduling options

* **Check Period**: time period during which active checks will be performed.
* **Max Check Attempts**: the number of checks to be performed before confirming the status of the
  host as not OK. When the status is confirmed, the notification process is triggered.
* **Normal Check Interval**: interval in minutes between checks when the host status is OK.
* **Retry Check Interval**: interval expressed in minutes referring to the wait between the checks done to confirm the status of the host is not "OK". Once the max check attempts have been made, the interval between checks returns to its normal value.
* **Active Checks Enabled** and **Passive Checks Enabled**: enable / disable the active and passive checks. [Passive checks](../../monitoring/passive-monitoring/enable-snmp-traps.md) are information the monitored resource sends to the monitoring engine without it having been actively requested.

## Notification tab
Learn more about [notifications](../../alerts-notifications/notif-concept.md) and [contacts](contacts.md).

* **Notification Enabled**: used to enable or disable notifications concerning the object.

> * **Linked contacts**: contacts that will receive the notifications. These contacts must be configured in the **Configuration > Users** page.

Author: ```suggestion
* **Linked contacts**: contacts that will receive the notifications. These contacts must be configured in the **Configuration > Users > Contact / Users** page.
```

> * **Linked contacts Groups**: groups of contacts that will receive the notifications. Groups must be configured in the **Configuration > Users** page.

Author: ```suggestion
* **Linked contacts Groups**: groups of contacts that will receive the notifications. Groups must be configured in the **Configuration > Users > Contact / Users** page.
```

>   **Vertical inheritance only**: determines contacts and/or groups of contacts that should be notified. When enabled on the  **Administration > Parameters > Centreon UI** page, two extra checkboxes appear:

Author: ```suggestion
If, on page **Administration > Parameters > Centreon UI**, the **Vertical inheritance only** option is enabled, the two previous fields will have had a checkbox below them to enable **additive inheritance**. When checked, the host will contacts and contacts groups added here will not override those added from the template but add themselves to those.
```

* **Notification Options**: define the statuses for which a notification will be sent. If no boxes are checked, you will receive notifications for all the statuses listed.
* **Notification Interval**: expressed in minutes. It indicates the time between sending notifications when the status is Not-OK. If the value is defined as 0, Centreon sends a single notification per status change.
  If the value is defined as 0, the scheduler sends a single notification per status change.
* **Notification Period**: indicates the time period during which the notifications will be enabled. No notifications will be sent outside this period, even if a status change occurs.
* **First notification delay**: expressed in minutes. It refers to the time delay before sending
  the first notification when a Not-OK status is validated. Setting the value to 0 will cause notifications to be sent immediately.
* **Recovery notification delay**: time that must pass before a recovery notification is sent (when the host goes back to an UP status). Setting the value to 0 will cause notifications to be sent immediately.

## Relations tab

> * **Host Groups**: [host groups](../groups.md) to which the host belongs. Groups allow you to make changes to many hosts at the same time.

Author: ```suggestion
* **Host Groups**: [host groups](../groups.md) to which the host belongs. Groups allow you to make changes to many hosts at the same time. Organizing your hosts in groups allows you to visualize reports for many objects at once, search for a set of objects and other features.
```

* **Host Categories**: [categories](../categories.md) to which the host belongs.
* **Parent Hosts**: define another host as a [parent](../../alerts-notifications/notif-dependencies.md) for this host. This can reduce the number of redundant notifications since the monitoring engine will send notifications for the parent hostand not for the child host. A host is considered to have no parent host if it is on the same network segment as the host doing the monitoring without any intermediates. Leave this field blank if that is the case.
* **Child Hosts**: designate the current host as the parent for other hosts.

## Data processing tab

* **Acknowledgement timeout** : is expressed in minutes. Once this time limit expires, the acknowledgement tag is removed from this host. If its status is still not-OK when this happens, the notification process starts once again. Leave this blank so acknowledgements do not expire.

> * **Check Freshness**: active check performed by the engine when the amount of time determined in the **Freshness Threshold** has elapsed since the last [passive check](../../monitoring/passive-monitoring/enable-snmp-traps.md) of the object.

Author: ```suggestion
* **Check Freshness**: active check performed by the engine when the amount of time determined in the **Freshness Threshold** has elapsed since the last [passive command](../../monitoring/passive-monitoring/enable-snmp-traps.md) of the object.
```

> * **Freshness Threshold**: expressed in seconds. If, during this period, no host status change request (passive command) is received, the active check command is executed. A threshold will be determined automatically if the field is left blank and the check is enabled.

Author: ```suggestion
* **Freshness Threshold**: expressed in seconds. If, during this period, no passive command is received from the host, the active check command is executed. A threshold will be determined automatically if the field is left blank and the check is enabled.
```

* **Flap Detection Enabled**: enable or disable the detection [flapping](../../alerts-notifications/notif-flapping.md) in the statuses (status
  value changing too often in a given period).
* **Low Flap Threshold** and **High Flap Threshold** define the high and low thresholds for the detection of
  flapping as a percentage of status change.
* **Retain Status Information** and **Retain Non Status Information**: indicate if the information concerning
  the status is saved after each time the check command is repeated.

> * **Event Handler Enabled**: enables or disables the [event handler](../event-handler.md).

Author: ```suggestion
* **Event Handler Enabled**: enables or disables the [event handler](../event-handler.md), these are commands executed automatically when the host changes its status and can potentially allow Centreon to solve an issue without needing to send a notification.
```

* **Event Handler**: command to be executed if the event handler is enabled.
* **Args**: arguments of the events handler command.

## Host Extended Infos tab

### Monitoring engine

* **Note URL**: clickable URL that will appear in the **Notes** column on the **Resource Status** page (the **Notes** column must be displayed for this).

> * **Note**: optional information concerning the host visible in the Resource Status page (the **Notes** column must be displayed for this).

Author: ```suggestion
* **Note**: text replacing the **Note URL** in the **Notes** column that shows as you hover the icon with your mouse. If this field is left blank, the entire link text will appear when the icon is hovered.
```

* **Active Checks Enabled** and **Passive Checks Enabled**: enable / disable the active and passive checks. [Passive checks](../../monitoring/passive-monitoring/enable-snmp-traps.md) are information the monitored resource sends to the monitoring engine without it having been actively requested.

## Notification tab
Learn more about [notifications](../../alerts-notifications/notif-concept.md) and [contacts](contacts.md).

* **Notification Enabled**: used to enable or disable notifications concerning the object.
* **Linked contacts**: contacts that will receive the notifications. These contacts must be configured in the **Configuration > Users** page.
* **Linked contacts Groups**: groups of contacts that will receive the notifications. Groups must be configured in the **Configuration > Users** page.
  
  **Vertical inheritance only**: determines contacts and/or groups of contacts that should be notified. When enabled on the  **Administration > Parameters > Centreon UI** page, two extra checkboxes appear:

>     * **Contact additive inheritance**: does not overwrite the configuration of the parent host template, but adds the contacts in addition to the contacts defined in the parent template.

Author: ```suggestion
```

>     * **Contact group additive inheritance**: does not overwrite the configuration of the parent host template, but adds the contact groups in addition to the contact groups defined in the parent template.

Author: ```suggestion
```

* **First notification delay**: expressed in minutes. It refers to the time delay before sending
  the first notification when a Not-OK status is validated. Setting the value to 0 will cause notifications to be sent immediately.
* **Recovery notification delay**: time that must pass before a recovery notification is sent (when the host goes back to an UP status). Setting the value to 0 will cause notifications to be sent immediately.

## Relations tab

* **Host Groups**: [host groups](../groups.md) to which the host belongs. Groups allow you to make changes to many hosts at the same time.
* **Host Categories**: [categories](../categories.md) to which the host belongs.
* **Parent Hosts**: define an object as a [parent](../../alerts-notifications/notif-dependencies.md) for this host. The parent of a host is the object between it and its monitoring host that is also the closest to the monitored object. A host is considered to have no parent host if it is on the same network segment as the host doing the monitoring without any intermediates. Leave this field blank if that is the case.
* **Child Hosts**: designate the current host as the parent for other hosts.

## Data processing tab

> 

Author: ```suggestion

* **Acknowledgement timeout** : is expressed in minutes. Once this time limit expires, the acknowledgement tag is removed from this host. If its status is still not-OK when this happens, the notification process starts once again. Leave this blank so acknowledgements do not expire.
```

* **Check Freshness**: active check performed by the engine when the amount of time determined in the **Freshness Threshold** has elapsed since the last [passive check](../../monitoring/passive-monitoring/enable-snmp-traps.md) of the object.
* **Freshness Threshold**: expressed in seconds. If, during this period, no host status change request (passive command) is received, the active check command is executed. A threshold will be determined automatically if the field is left blank and the check is enabled.
* **Flap Detection Enabled**: enable or disable the detection [flapping](../../alerts-notifications/notif-flapping.md) in the statuses (status
  value changing too often in a given period).
* **Low Flap Threshold** and **High Flap Threshold** define the high and low thresholds for the detection of
  flapping as a percentage of status change.
* **Retain Status Information** and **Retain Non Status Information**: indicate if the information concerning
  the status is saved after each time the check command is repeated.

> * **Stalking Options**: options to be recorded if **Retain status Information** is enabled.

Author: ```suggestion
```

* **Event Handler Enabled**: enables or disables the [event handler](../event-handler.md).
* **Event Handler**: command to be executed if the event handler is enabled.
* **Args**: arguments of the events handler command.

## Host Extended Infos tab

### Monitoring engine

* **Note URL**: clickable URL that will appear in the **Notes** column on the **Resource Status** page (the **Notes** column must be displayed for this).
* **Note**: optional information concerning the host visible in the Resource Status page (the **Notes** column must be displayed for this).
* **Action URL**: URL normally used for giving information on actions on the host (maintenance, etc.).
* **Icon**: icon used for the host, it can be seen in a variety of places such as the ressource status page. A 40x40 pixels format is recommended.
* **Alt Icon**: optional string shown when the **Icon** cannot be displayed.
* **Host severity**: [severity](../categories.md#severities) level of the host. This is a special type of category that also allows you to sort the Resource Status by severity level.

> * **Status MAP Image**: logo for the [Centreon MAP module](../../graph-views/introduction-map.md).

Author: ```suggestion
```

* **Geographic coordinates**: geographical coordinates used by the Centreon MAP module to position the resource on a map.
  Define "Latitude,Longitude"; for example, the set of coordinates for Paris is "48.51,2.20"

> The **2d Coords** and **3d Coords** fields are obsolete and have no impact on the host.

Author: ```suggestion
```

   Modifying the order of the templates automatically updates the applied configurations if necessary.

   This button ![image](../../assets/configuration/common/move.png#thumbnail1) enables us to change the order of host templates.
   This button ![image](../../assets/configuration/common/delete.png#thumbnail1) is used to delete the host template.

* If the **Create Services linked to the Template too** field is defined as **Yes**, Centreon automatically generates
  the services according to the service [template](../templates.md) of the host template placed above the others.

### Access groups (option for non-administrators)

* **[ACL Resource Groups](../../administration/access-control-lists.md)**: link this host to a hostgroup, this action can only be performed by non-administrators users.
> Not linking the host to a hostgroup will cause it to be invisible!

### Host check options

* **Check Command**: command used to check the availability of the host. Use it only if you are not applying any [templates](../templates.md) to the host.
* **Args**: arguments given to the check command (each argument starts with ”!”).

> * **Custom macros**: is automatically populated as you add templates] but you can also add your own [custom macros](../macros/#custom-macros).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Custom macros**: is automatically populated as you add templates, but you can also add your own [custom macros](../macros/#custom-macros).
```

## Host Extended Infos tab

### Monitoring engine

* **Note URL**: clickable URL that will appear in the **Notes** column on the **Resource Status** page (the **Notes** column must be displayed for this).
* **Note**: optional information concerning the host visible in the Resource Status page (the **Notes** column must be displayed for this).
* **Action URL**: URL normally used for giving information on actions on the host (maintenance, etc.).
* **Icon**: icon used for the host, it can be seen in a variety of places such as the ressource status page. A 40x40 pixels format is recommended.
* **Alt Icon**: optional string shown when the **Icon** cannot be displayed.
* **Host severity**: [severity](../categories.md#severities) level of the host. This is a special type of category that also allows you to sort the Resource Status by severity level.
* **Status MAP Image**: logo for the [Centreon MAP module](../../graph-views/introduction-map.md).
* **Geographic coordinates**: geographical coordinates used by the Centreon MAP module to position the resource on a map.
  Define "Latitude,Longitude"; for example, the set of coordinates for Paris is "48.51,2.20"

> The **2d Coords** and **3d Coords** fields are obsolete and have no impact on the host.

Author: option may not exist anymore

### Additional Information

> * **Enable/disable resource**: determine whether or not the host and its services must be monitored. If the host is disabled, it does not appear on the **Resources Status** page.

Author: ```suggestion
* **Enable/disable resource**: determine whether or not the host and its services must be monitored. If the host is disabled, it will still show on the list of hosts but will not appear on the **Resources Status** page. Warning, disabled hosts still count towards the number of hosts included with your licence.
```
